1.What is React ??
ReactJS is the Client Side Javascript Library.
ReactJs given by facebook.
ReactJS used to simplify the complex UI.
By using ReactJS, we can split the complex UI to multiple executable solutions.
Each executable solution called as component.

2.What is Component ?
Components are the building blocks of any React App.

3.What is JSX ??
JSX stands for Javascript + XML
Brower can’t understand XML
So, we must convert XML to Javascript
We will use “Babel” tool for conversion.
We will develop React Applications by using JSX.
It makes easier to create templates
It is faster than regular JavaScript because it performs optimization while translating the code to JavaScript
JSX is a XML-like syntax extension to ECMAScript without any defined semantics

4.What is React DOM ??
 This package serves as the entry point to the DOM and server renderers for React.

5.what are the differences between framework and library?
Framework:

A framework is a skeleton where application defines its own features to fill out the skeleton.
But in the frame work the control is vice versa of library where framework calls or control.
Library:

A library is a collection of class definitions for which code reusability is high.
when we call a method from a library at that time we are in control over the library

6.Will react follows MVC?
No, React won’t follow MVC because it follows unidirectional data flow where ever MVC follows two-directional data flow.

7. In how many ways we can create component?
In react.js we can create component in two ways 
    Class Component
    Functional Component

8.what is state ??
State is predefined object in react js. It is used to store the component related data.

9.what are props ??
React props are like function arguments in javaScript and attributes in HTML.
React allows us to pass information to a component using something called props.
To pass the data form parent component to child component we can use props.
Props are immutable(can’t change the value of props).

10.what are the diffetences between state and props ?
          
11.how to change the state in ReactJS ??
        using setState()

12.explain map() function in reactjs

13.how to provide communication between Components ??

14.explain state management in ReactJS ??
       explain redux,contextapi and props concept

15.how to maintain the immutablity in ReactJS ??
We can use this.setState to maintain the immutability

16.what are the middlewares are available in ReactJS ??
The famous middleware’s in ReactJs are React-Thunk and React-Saga. The middleware sits in between the dispatch and reducers.

17.what is thunk ??
Thunk is a middleware library in react. It supports for asynchronous data flow. Asynchronous Messaging means that, it is a one way communication and the flow of communication is one way only.
 Thunk created by using “promises” functions. It allows to write action creators that return a function instead of an action.

18.explain HOC in ReactJS ??
Higher Oreder Component (HOC) is an Advanced technique in React for using Component logic.
 Higher Order Component is a function that takes a Component and returns a new Component.
 Higher Order Component are common in third-party React libraries,such as Redux.

19.Explain life cycle hooks in Reactjs…?

20.Is render manditory in ReactJs….?
Yes, render() function is manditory in ReactJs.
 The render() method is the only required method in a class Component.
 The render() function should be pure.

21.What are pure Components in Reactjs…?
Pure Components compare all the properties of the current state with the next state,
and current props with the next props.
Pure Components helps in reducing unnecessary render() method calls.

22.what are the differences between stateful and stateless components in Reactjs….?

23.what is functional component in ReactJS ??
it is simple javascript function and pass data by using props
it is use for ajax and API request.

24.explain Routing in ReactJS ??

25.what is create-react-app ?
“create-react-app” is the tool given by facebook developers. and this tool used to create the React Applications and its saves you from time consuming setup configuration.
We will install ” create-react-app ” by using following command
 npm install -g create-react-app@latest

26.what is super() ??
 “super” keyword is used as a “function” which calls the parent class.
The super() in javascript is used to call the methods of the parent class.
It is used within a constructor function to call the parent constructor function.

27.Advantages and disadvantages of reactjs ??
Advantages:
------------------
Virtual DOM in ReactJS makes user experience better and developer’s work faster.
React components can be re-used easily throughout the application.
JSX makes components/blocks code read-able.
ReactJS improves performance due to virtual DOM.
ReactJS applications are easy to test.
Benefit of Having JavaScript Library because JavaScript library provides more flexibility.
JSX is an optional syntax extension to JavaScript that makes writing our own components much easier.
It is SEO(Search Engine Optimization) friendly.

Disadvantages :
-------------------------
React technologies updating so fast that there is no time to make proper documentation.
ReactJS Covers only the UI Layers of the app and nothing else.
JSX(JavaScript eXtension) as a barrier: React uses JSX, HTML with JavaScript mixed together. For new Developers, JSX is a barrier.
ReactJS is not for small scale projects.
The frequent updates of react js is a major cause of frustration among developer.


28.what are the differences between DOM & Virtual DOM ??
                      DOM                                                                                 Virtual DOM

 It updates slow.                                                                 1. It updates faster.
DOM can directly update HTML.                                  2. Can’t directly update HTML.
Creates a new DOM if element updates.                      3. Updates the JSX if element updates.
DOM manipulation is very expensive.                         4. DOM manipulation is very easy.
Too much of memory wastage.                                      5. No memory wastage.



